---
layout: main
title: Aikuma Tutorial
css: aikuma
---
{% include aikuma/navigation.html %}

Aikuma
======

Introduction
------------

Aikuma allows the user to:

Record and listen to audio files
Perform speech driven annotation of those audio files.
Sync a users files to an FTP server.

The following is a brief tutorial that demonstrates how to use Aikuma and
describes these features in more detail.

Create a user.
-------------

When you first run Aikuma you will be confronted with a screen with two
buttons. Click "create" to create a user.

The screen you will be taken to will allow you to enter the users name, select
the language from a drop down list, and take a photo. This information will
subsequently be attached to the user created.

Record audio
------------

Press this button on the main screen, and you will be taken to the following
screen.

Recording audio can be done in two ways. The first way is to manually press the
(record button) in order to begin recording. Should you want to pause the
recording press (this button).  The second way to record is to use the
proximity detector in the phone in order to activate and pause the recording.
To initiate recording put the phone to your ear and start speaking. To pause,
take the phone away.

When finished, press save. You will then be
presented with an option to name the recording and assign it a language (The
default language is the language associated with the user who made the
recording). If you want to discard the recording, press the left pointing arrow
and you will be taken back to the main screen.

Respeaking audio
----------------

Aikuma allows you to annotate previously recorded audio files to create new
audio files referred to as respeakings. To create a respeaking press (button).
You will be presented with a list of all recordings (including other
respeakings) which you can respeak.

Select one and you will be taken to the Respeaking screen. Press the (button)
to start hearing the original recording. When you feel it is time to make a
comment, start talking to the phone. The playing will stop, and it will begin
recording your voice. When you want to continue hearing the recording, stop
talking and after a brief pause, the playing of the original audio will resume.
To pause the playing of hte original without being forced to speak, press
(button) and resume with (button).

In a similar fashion to the recording activity, respeaking can be prompted with
the proximity detector. This allows you to perform the useful cycle of putting
the phone to your ear to start hearing the recording; talking when you will in
order to annotate; and then moving the phone away from your face in order to
pause the respeaking again.

Listening
---------

If you want to simply listen to an audio file, press (button) and select the
desired recording from the list. The subsequent activity allows you to toggle
between playing and pausing and offers a progress bar that can be adjusted by
touch in order to jump to certain points in the recording.

Changing User
-------------

From the main screen, click the button with the photo of the current user, or
(button), if there is no photo. You will be taken to a screen that presents you
with a list of users, and provides the option of creating a new one.

Syncing
-------

Ensure the phone is connected wirelessly to a network, lest the phone bill be
very high.

Data on the phone can be synchronized with an FTP server. From the main screen
press the Sync button. You can then fill in the IP Address of the FTP server,
the username and password and sync with the server. Note that this may take
some time if there is lots of data either on the server or on the phone.

The synchronisation is never destructive. Any data on the phone that is not on
the server is transferred to the server, and any data on the server that is not
on the phone is transferred to the phone.


